Approaching a test today would not be to test quality in like I did when I started is to understand what quality is and
Recognize the gap between what we're doing and what that is
Welcome to a be testing podcast your modern testing podcast
Your hosts Alan and Brent will be here to guide you through topics on testing
Leadership agile and anything else that comes to mind now on with the show. Hey everybody, it's Alan and
Brent and it's a be testing podcast
You didn't tell me we were gonna do like the monster truck
Podcast come in this
Monday Monday Monday. Yeah
165 165 165. All right, so everybody's awake. I'm sorry
I'll tone that down and post prod as they say, but we're here again to talk about
Yeah, who knows really right Brett? What do you been up to? Are you watching the fun and politics on this fine Friday?
I'm kind of
Sick of the politics right now
Yes and no, but I was thinking of a podcast episode
Right. Yeah, and I was just thinking
man
to me the politics are extra political and
I was thinking about how we've talked about
Really in America. I think you agree with us really in America the fact that we're a two-party system
Oh God friggin blows and
Right now I kind of see the two parties in dominant are
Both trying to make it a single party
Yeah, and I'm just like this this
As you know, I am neither of the the popular party
No, but it doesn't help to be neither
It doesn't help to be neither until we have ranked choice voting and then people can be neither it can make a difference
No, because then yes, then you're asking me to be the enabler and join the two-party system
Be all freaking least go I'm a liberalist or
Whatever it is and I'm gonna vote for my candidate and I'm net my candidates never gonna win because we have a hostile two-party
System, but I have my principles you tell me how
How throwing in with one of the stupid two parties that is what today to be?
How does that help it become a three-party or a four or a five because today no matter what one of the stupid two
parties is going to win people like me who may want to vote for another party are afraid to
We don't want our vote to not count. We don't want the worst of two evils to get into the office
Okay, so more more
Because you're afraid you want me to join your idiocy
Is that what you just told me no bullshit you're wasting a vote
You're sending a vote to someone who is not going to win and then that vote just gets flushed down the toilet
Doesn't matter for anything else. I want you to continue to vote for your little party of that that
aligns with your principles. I
Do not want I want to do this
I want to vote for whatever party aligns my principles, but when an inevitably at least at first that candidate doesn't win
it doesn't let a
for example a
Person convicted of espionage and selling new potentially selling nuclear secrets from getting into power
But if we all vote for the party that wins we have exactly the opposite of what I want
So your logic
No, my my logic you're saying you're saying that if I vote for my principles. Yep knowing that
My party is not gonna win
Because eventually if enough people vote for your like you vote for your principles people get more and more comfortable voting for that person
party will get more
dollars to
Campaign and become a little bit more prominent get their voice heard more than they do today
Which ends up letting these third and fourth parties rise into prominence
Well, it sounds like then I should you're reversing that I should continue to vote the way I do
You're not gonna get the momentum. You need to challenge the two-party system without ranked by sorting. Well, I agree
But okay done then which of the two parties are gonna give me that
none of the other party because they both
Desperately want to stay in power and be in power and be the power so we're never gonna have ranked choice voting
We are always going to have better candidates than the two
Democrat and Republican I'm so sorry everybody but you didn't get this anyway
We're always gonna have better candidates far better candidates than what the Democratic and Republican parties put out there always always till the end of time
Yes
Unfortunately, that's the only choice we really have we can vote for other people and feel better about it
But no matter who we vote for either the Republican or the Democrat is going to win any political race
Did you see in the latest latest voter pamphlet for Washington? There was somebody running? I forget which office
I almost voted for him, but I chickened that up last minute. His party was the elven way
I
Mean, you know what? This is where we gotta go
We got to get to a place where if I feel like voting for the elven way
I can vote for the elven way and they have a chance of winning
But today we'll go all vote for the party with the best chance of winning and I'll be yeah
No, so I'm not gonna do that. I mean I would have voted for the elven way guy if
If his principles were aligned a little bit of a rant there
We're about seven minutes in but we'll get on
What?
Well, I was just thinking the I we didn't have much time
Post said it last time, but I gotta say I really enjoyed our our last guest
Yeah, he was fun and I feel bad one of our listeners pinged us and was a little bummed
He said hey, I listen to the first 10 minutes sound like an ad so I left and it did turn out that we talked
About his product at the beginning, but by no means was it like it really wasn't about his product at all
No, although we did talk about it at the beginning just kind of because it no man set some context
What happens is you want to be on the podcast you somehow internet stalk me and you go?
Hey, can this dude? I know beyond the podcast or this can I be on the podcast and I'm
Yeah, sure, whatever and then we then we get to know the person on the podcast and we talk and yeah, it was fun
You're gonna say something. Yeah, I was gonna say no
I mean it made sense it to me it makes sense for us to talk about their product very because our job is to convert the
Conversation to something that we think is gonna be interesting to our listeners or just what we want to talk about
Yeah, but if we have a guest on right, I'm gonna want to talk about their product
Because then I'm then I'm kind of probing to figure out what okay
What are these guys or what is this person a domain expert on that's interesting to our listeners? Ah
Yeah, right and I didn't think it were 10 minutes in like like I thought we had it pretty quickly
All right
Yeah, this leadership is disappointing people at a level they can absorb a mens
Okay, anything else you want to hit on before we give you a topic?
No, let's that's that's top
All right, I was recently to a couple things going on here and I'm gonna be very transparent about what's going on here
I am super lazy. Did you know that Brent? I did
This is why I automate stuff and by that I don't mean writing Selenium tests. So stuff it I am
Superly so slimy Selenium tests. We've covered this Selenium test is is is the opposite of lazy
Let me give you an example how lazy I am
Okay, my I was new monitor, but it's a little screwed up in power management
When I plug it in in the morning
It doesn't turn it doesn't connect it like my my Mac thinks it's there
But it's not there and I have to well used to have to unplug it and plug it back in
Okay, and it would work fine the whole rest of the day just after being off for a while
It won't plug back in kind of a pain
Well, I am way too lazy to crawl under my desk every morning and unplug and plug in my monitor
so I put a little internet addressable plug on the monitor and then put that on a timer so it turns off and on
about 10 minutes for my first meeting in the morning and
That's how lazy I am
To me it feels like a YouTube word of the life hack
Lazy someone asked me
Recently like would you write? Can you write you know, I write articles once for a while
I said, yeah, I think I'd like to write an article
It's been a while and I said you have a suggestion because man, I don't even know where to start that
I haven't already ranted about how the way how we test at unity
No, that isn't in my list I did repost someone on Twitter post
I saw another I just glanced by another one saying someone with the testers mindset could blah blah blah
So I reposted my myth of the testers mindset thing on Twitter last week
Yeah, we got a got a few few head nods and yeah, ha's and that kind of stuff
But anyway, they're right another article
I asked for a suggestion and then which I'll share here in a second and then
Another company asked me if I do a talk like a recorded like 10-minute talk, which I can usually spit those out pretty quickly
But I'm gonna do
The same time in a read an article about something and then I'm gonna talk on the same
thing and
Because I'm way lazy and I should say in college every once in a while
I would get an assignment from two different classes that was close enough like a writing assignment
I could do the same paper for two different classes. Now. It's not plagiarism if it's plagiarizing you
Major me ism. So I'm gonna do is I'm gonna write a paper probably this weekend. I'm gonna give a talk
I'm probably gonna record it
Next week, but we're gonna go ahead and kind of hash out the topic today
We have this more than a couple times
We have we have like vet my topic
But I have some ideas here and I want to walk through kind of what I'm thinking about but I want to get your
Initial reaction first to the topic of if I was starting as a tester today
How would I approach it and I want to get your initial thoughts and then I have a whole bunch of thoughts
It's gonna go somewhere. So like Brent if I'm gonna ask you if you were starting as a tester today, how would you approach it?
Okay
first question
What's a tester? No, we're we're we're
question you said starting as a tester, but I assume I assume we're gonna go with sort of a straight out of college type of
No, no, no, I think up to interpretation
So I think my question while you think about this my question of what is a tester is a valid question because
Today if you look at the people who have a tester role, it's a lot of different things. All right
So let me start a little bit on
Kind of what I'm thinking on my story cuz I've been a bunch of different kinds of testers and some of them haven't been
Much of testers when I first started off way back in 1993
explored applications I
Found errors. I reported bugs. I work with developers to understand them to show them to demo them
I did I validated things were working as expected. I used applications all those things
Someone who does that role even today is still called the tester, right? So when I go back and do that again, probably not
Probably not. I did that for a while and then I did a lot of API testing
I wrote a bunch of network analysis utilities and tools to help me examine fonts and
font rendering and bitmap rendering on Windows a lot of deep API testing not just
Automating the API but writing tools and applications that helped me understand
how
Because I was working on GDI mostly with some user
how these
user facing API is worked on Windows
So I did a lot of API testing a short story would I go be back and be that kind of tester?
And the answer is no because I fully believe today that everything I did then it should be the developers job
The developers should write their own tests and there's a tester could write a few of those
But I was writing a bunch of a bunch of tests
Fortunately at that time very few of them were kind of unit testy
But I think a lot of the tests I wrote at that time still should be owned by developers
They probably could have written them better than I did for sure
And at the time to my to credit I think there's a lot of like these tools are I'm picturing them like
stuff to render code pages to dive in and look at the shading on true type fonts things like that I
Shared with developers and they kind of end up being code developed over time
But still API testing you could say my you might even say my job was a developer
Who did mostly testing versus implementing new stuff? I don't know. So after I did that
For a while basically is this jumping ahead a few years, but I was still a tester on a test team
I was a test architect
But I mostly wrote tools to help testers do better work. I wrote like test test runners
In fact, I wrote a co-wrote a CI system back in like
Really stuff to help stuff. I taught developers how to write unit tests and gave them
Like code generation that could look at their code and figure out it stubs for some unit tests go ahead
Yeah, but then at that point in time, were you really still a tester? Ah, good question, right?
Good question. You know what I was doing at that time
You know what I began to do at that time for the first time in my career tag
I began to accelerate the achievement the shippable quality. So you were an accelerant versus a safety net
I think for the first time ever I began to be an accelerant versus a safety net. Yep. Yep
But I was working on a cellar primarily except for a few cases
95% of what I was doing was accelerating testers or
No, well the what you just described was accelerating testing. Oh, yes, but at that point only the testers did the testing
Yeah, I was trying to remember
And it's hard when you were still here at Microsoft
Was it still?
Was this still a place in your point of view where it was common to have a discussion with?
Developer if I'm doing all the unit tests, what are you doing? Yeah that that was this is yeah that happened for years
That that was gone by the time I left
Okay, so this is all everything I talked to you now. We were coming
This is like my my job as a tester up to about 2003 2004
Yeah, I
Yeah, so I like how I like how you did the shift there into into an accelerant. I really do I'm like
Okay, so he's
He can now point back to a time where he actually began his journey as a
Modern tester if you will. Yeah, very I didn't even realize it and I knew a lot about testing and I was teaching
testing and talking about testing and techniques and
But for the most part I was focusing on accelerating the test team
But then a few years later
Eventually, I don't even know what I did on link or communicate or ever it was at the time
But when I moved to Xbox I that point I was still doing a lot of accelerating of the test team
But really more of accelerating the entire team
I did a lot of stuff in the build system a lot of tools for developers to use as well as testers
So I was still working as an accelerant, but in this case accelerating
More of the team and then I moved so so there I'm a little right when I think about I think when I think about
What do we call it our motto our mission statement?
Accelerate the achievement of shippable quality. Yeah, you weren't accelerate in Xbox
But just because you're on engineering systems
Doesn't mean you were accelerating shippable quality now me knowing me knowing you you probably were
Right, but well, I was doing things like porting app
Verifier to Xbox because I believe in the power of dynamic
Analysis tools making sure we had efficient static analysis tools in our build pipeline
With bugs auto assigned to people for accountability there. So it's code lots of code correctness work. I did I accelerated code correctness
For whatever that's worth right?
So and then that just naturally graduated into like what I did on teams, which was even more focusing on
Well, I did I began to do more test coaching then even on
Arcadia before then the Stupid Science Project of working with developers
I'm really helping them probably the first time I helped them do better testing maybe worth what maybe that's worth talking about
So then I spent a time in my career as a tester as a test coach
Least partially helping developers learn how to do better testing
teaching them that they don't need to have a testers mindset they can just have a growth mindset and
at the same time doing that focusing on
velocity and
Even though I didn't know them at the time indirectly working on
Dorometrics like cycle times getting faster at delivering and getting feedback from customers
But a little bit of coaching in there, too
Yeah, so so at that point you could say that that point I was no longer a tester
Would you say that if I was coaching testers? Do I still get to wear the tester hat if I'm coaching developers on testing?
You do but to what?
Like are we going into the weeds now in terms of your initial question? No, I want to go back to it
There's an evolution here
There's like this is where my career went and it's all based on a knowledge of testing
When I shifted into accelerating the team
I moved into a little different approach in how I wanted to improve quality on the team and maybe it's
Somewhere in there. I began to care a lot more about quality than did about testing
So if I pop back original question, I don't actually know the answer here yet
If I was a tester today, how would I approach it? Yeah, so I was thinking of it this way. Okay, so let's say
Let's say you just came out of college
Okay, and brand new you're reported to a new manager and your title is
ste
Okay, okay, and your your new manager tells you hey Alan
Your job is to accelerate the achievement of shippable quality
Great WTF does that mean right? That's gonna be your first question. What does that mean?
How would you go about working it through this to me? I
When I think of it the other way around
it's like the
The first thing I would want to know is
Okay, shippable quality
What does that mean? How is that measured?
Right. I first need to know that to know if we achieve it
And then the the other part of the statement is talking about cycle time and increasing cycle time, right?
Well, the definition of shippable is directly tied to cycle time. I don't know if my out of college
ste
Persona would know that but I know that right when you and I came out of college on this one the ship date was
Sure, it had wiggle room, but the ship date was just decided
18 years ago, I'll say for me
And I have I have
Modern testing principles up for me. The first thing I would do is all right
Where's the customer usage data?
Right, they I'm gonna start going coming up if there isn't already an active
Definition I'm gonna start coming up with
What are the problems customers are trying to solve with the the data? So for me, it's it's
my role
I don't know. I think if I were straight out of college, I would view my role as far more of a
data engineer
business analyst
to try to understand the the customer and
understand we are the customer
Yeah, no, um, that's that to try to understand the customer. What is the value proposition?
Where are they getting stuck? Where are they improving? Let me clarify understanding or make sure something gets clicked like I go
Yeah, you're onto something. So
This is approaching a test today would not be to test quality in like I did when I started is to understand
What quality is and recognize the gap between what we're doing and what that is. Is that where you're going? Yeah
Okay to me it would it would absolutely start with
Where you are a world-renowned
Expert, okay. I can't I just got out of college man. I just got out of college. Give me some time
No, no, no
Virtual you the real you I would start with a be testing right which is of course the podcast this
podcast and so a
slash
But where you are an acknowledged world leader
Like go with your wheelhouse
This is actually huge. This is something maybe we've been missing talking about coming out of this is like if I'm able to
Look at data
Maybe even talk to product at customer insights
But the more I can understand about what customer perceived quality is
The more I can assess what our gaps are now. That's is that a
tester job
Usually it's like a product manager that drives
A-B testing
so is this an adjunct of
traditional product management or I think the new tester role is to because when I
Remember for there was a while once why I confused you by actually knowing some of the right nomenclature and definitions and wording around
Experimentation and data science. I believe the correct adjective was impressed me
All right, and that and when I was doing that research
So I'm really good at learning enough about something quickly to fake my way
I'm the king of fake it till you make it
But I remember now when I was reading and studying for that stuff
The person when they talked about doing an experiment they talked about being a partnership between the tester and the developer
But in this case by the tester they met the person designing the test
Yes, and the test in this case is not the test case input force you what happens
The test is the treatment the different the a the B part of the a B testing
Yeah, so let me tell you for example
Like I don't know that the product manager is really the person that does that anymore
It certainly is is not in my experience. I I assign that to like straight out of college
ICs on my team Oh
Interesting who partner with straight out of college?
ICPMs on someone else's thing
Interesting but but those hypotheses range from itty-bitty to huge
For example, so one of my team
Worked with a PM on a different team very very recently
And wanted to understand
So do you know how in some text boxes you can you can put you can put sort of a grayed out text in there
The kind of guide what goes here and then when they start typing that text goes away. Yeah, exactly
the control said
Describe your problem
Okay, they wanted to to test what happened if instead of that in the treatment it said
Briefly describe your problem. Okay, just add in the word briefly
There is a standard set of KPIs that we measured against we basically said. All right, you have the the data you've actually
My IC just basically said this is what we need how you needed to find the experiment
How you need to split it and we need the data
Two weeks later. It took that IC 15 minutes to say
Yeah, briefly does literally nothing there's there's no difference between specifying briefly or not
good example of an A B test, but I need to rewind because my mind is
blowing
blowing because
20 years ago that new at a college tester comes in and is validating that
If the input box says it takes text it'll take text
Done things like that valid the canonical example making sure the password you can log into the site now
As we've discussed many times before
Testing and automated testing especially should be owned by the developer who wants to code
Right. So the tester today does that the that stuff's been validated. So instead the tester today is all about
Testing via data coming with hypotheses around how the software works and and and and what would make it better or worse
Let's let's say better what would make it better and then designing experiments around
Confirming or disproving those hypotheses. I think that's perfectly reasonable
But that is it's holy crap and I would bet that there are I mean you're doing this
This is really cool that you have people do this. This is this is but you don't call these people testers
What do you call them? I call them data scientists. Nah
Yeah, wait, is it the profession of data scientists going away?
That's my prediction. Yeah, and then they go back to being testers or what happens?
It's a very confusing circle of life here. So
Well, you'll you'll enjoy this
Will I so I believe in the industry we're at the beginning of the end of that of the era
Okay, I'm pretty certain it started before you
left Microsoft
Where it's our basically?
What do you call something that repeats every decade? It's it's a cycle
Ten years cycle ten year cycles are perfect. It is about four or five years ago
Someone in HR decided it was time to change the career stage profile
because things had gotten out of whack and
They started this like five years later and they just finished their current conclusion
Okay, the current iteration and I'm like, oh my god, this is already invalid
so they're they're creating a
They're creating a whole dev track. The test track is gone. Okay, but there is a dev track
There is an analytics track and there is a data science track
And there is also a data engineering track
Those those last
What's the I don't know what I know of course there are differences but
Uh, I so data engineering versus the other two that one's easy. It's right
Make the data right make it flow sure right and
Correct and keep it complete
But i'll let you finish and then i'm gonna rant in terms of people doing work in data science space
Based on my current reading of the other three, which is dev data scientists in and analysis
I really
cannot figure out
the difference
Right. I look at them and i'm like, okay, so if I write code that
uses data science apis
Which one of those am I?
It shouldn't matter because some people are going to live in the middle of two of them and then it gets really hard
So a little bit of a rant here and I can do this because I worked extensively
On the version you just retired or about to retire
And also had I guess not much involvement in what we have at my current employer
But my experience is what happened with the original we had ladder levels then we had
Something else and then something else in this new thing brent described
So the first something else we had
Was far too specific
That the descriptions are long and what happens when you had you're too specific
is
People use them as a checklist they go. Okay. I did that did that did that did that please promote me
Yeah, that was that was absolutely horrible. That was horrible
Let me let me finish
then
The new ones still a little bit but less there was some overlap we made sure that
It felt calibrated between disciplines
But there was still a lot of like what do you call my accelerant role was I was on the test track
But nothing I did was testing. So it was weird again too specific test architect is what you called it. Ellen
Well, I I did not come up with the title
Okay, I didn't invent that one
All right. All right. So what happens is let me tell you where I work now
uh, we have
two
Career the ladder levels over there called here. Um job job profiles job architecture. We have two across the entire company
technical and non-technical
ooh
They're at they're abstract, but they're close they're close enough and there's four areas for each market to go into them and reveal any super secrets
But what that leaves is a little bit of a disadvantage is it is a lot of interpretation?
That the manager has to do to figure it out. But my argument is that's actually good
There's a lot of pushes to go. I need to develop a
A version of this just for software engineers or just for program management or just blah blah
But they generally on a small team. It's fine. If you can help explain that
You're just going to get your thoughts down. But what I've found is the more abstract
Principle one that can't be used as a checklist but can be used to differentiate between levels
Actually works much much better than the more detailed ones. I saw at microsoft two of them technical non-technical
Done. Okay. Yeah, I don't like non-technical
It seemed because it it it there was a I'm sorry. There's there's there's three and then there's management
Okay. Yeah, and that would be the right
Right now you look at that and I go technical non-technical and management like to me. It almost sounds like it put a stack order
Technical like the useful people are at the top technical down to the useless ones, which is management
It reminds me of an event I was at
I never told you this actually so I had an event
Uh, it was one of these back prior to covet where we actually would be do forced manager training in a room
with other people and we would meet new people
and um
I met
the former drummer of death cab for cutie because
He works for microsoft now in xbox studios as an artist
Oh cool
And I think based on my conversation with him
I don't think he'd like being classified as non-technical
But like it would be better to be classified as something
Pro something like to be clear. There's
A lot of people call expert test to call testing. There's technical testing and non-technical testing, which is crap, right?
But that's that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about the difference between
marketing
And development we call marketing non-technical
Yeah, why don't we just call them?
Sales or or something right that sales and marketing are different things, right?
No, no, no, but there's got to be a broader name for then non-technical
technical and
Creed, I don't know technical
Important technical and actually makes us money on the dev work. We do. I don't know
But I I get what you're saying that this non-technical label is
Practically offensive in some cases. So I get that. All right, let's go back to let's go back rewind rewind
If you were a tester today, how would you approach it?
We went too far back because
Okay
All right. So you said
You had you said something along the lines that you had your mind blown and oh my because I approached testing today by
calling testing I would approach testing today as
Experimentation and assessing quality via hypothesis based on customer data
Yeah, I was looking at it like I have over on
A different screen than the one where your camera is on
I have the mt principles and and if today the job is to accelerate the achievement of shippable quality
the world we entered into
maybe was accelerate the
Achievement of required correctness
Hmm
That sounds dumb
It does sound dumb and that's probably mostly because it was dumb. No. Yeah. Okay
We're on the same page. I think if I were coming into a test or if I were managing a new
tester team
Today it definitely is going to be focused on
quality and not correctness
Yes
So
I
So here's where my mind is because ab testing is still testing
No, that's actually what i'm thinking. Alan i'm like in the software world
Right now we talk about modern testing is not very modern and not about testing
Yeah, okay, and we operate a podcast called ab testing we do
What if if I were to tell you
In season two of the ab testing is coming up after this cliffhanger
No, what if I were to tell you
F the old definition of testing
this
is
about
Modern and it is about testing
But it's today's definition of we are gonna piss off so many people while we change the world
Yeah, ab testing it's official. It is modern and it is about testing screw y'all
Yeah
No, I think we have to go through the principles and say okay with that definition of testing
What is missing?
Because i'll tell you right now there is an
there number seven
Yeah, no, they change
Number seven absolutely changes. I think expanding it the know-how
I mean that's that's what i'm working on right now
The I have now gone through so many freaking experiment designs
I'm now at a point. Oh, oh my god
Why do these people keep coming to me the the mistakes they keep making are so easy. They could just stop
Right. I'm i'm now at a point where i'm getting prepared to automate this which is what i've done my whole career as as have you
Just the boring parts
In retrospective, that means my life has been very boring
I think season two of ab testing coming up here
Maybe we maybe we really messed and put the slash in our podcast title
Okay
Yeah, that's interesting. There's some exploration to do here. So I didn't and here's the fun
Here's what you get to hear as a listener all three of you of ab testing
I didn't know where this was going that my
My approach in thinking about how to answer this question of if I were a tester day
How would I approach it? Let's try and think about the different kinds of testing
I've done
And how quickly I evolved out of actually doing testing yet somehow
Knowing something about it, but we we made a shift here, which is
It's what stephen johnson in where good ideas comes from is called the adjacent possible
It was there it was there to be noticed. It just took us talking for us to notice it
Yeah, and it's interesting. It was it was there. It was there all the time
It has been absolutely we we've just been
And and we've we've talked around it
like for years it just never
it's like we're
We're at a party and we keep refusing to make eye contact with this one thing because so we don't even notice that they're there and then suddenly like
Oh, you've been here the whole time
Testing I am staring at you and fluttering my eyes
Hey ab testing
What's your side let's go get a beer together it's too much of a random tangent maybe even even for our podcast
Almost impossible long time listeners will know it's pretty much impossible to out tangent
The a slash be testing podcast. Oh, I you're really gonna stick with that, huh? Just for now
I don't know what's gonna happen, man. I don't know what's gonna happen
On season two of the ab testing podcast. Sorry on season two
So let's be testing podcast. We still got a few minutes left. Let's go through this
All right, man. I'm win. All right. I just got excited. Sorry, man. I'm gonna reel it back
So we're going to define modern testing
like testing
now
In the the the span of the next few minutes testing
is talking about
ab testing experiment design
And the thing that i'm just i'm like, yeah shippable quality quality. It's about quality. That's what ab testing
Oh my god
The thing I really like about ab testing is because it's about
Quality versus the other testing craft is about correctness old testing not modern testing
Now we don't have to do modern and traditional we can actually do modern and old. Yeah, I was I was thinking
Could we get away with
calling it old
And just testing like remove our adjective and put it on the other put the adjective
on the other one
traditional or like I've been calling it traditional but I now want to turn that makes it sound like it's archaic
ab testing our
Uh, our priority is improving the business
Absolutely. That sounds good. I don't know if it's really
well
I was like, you know, we put that in some more homework on these and but yeah
There are new principles because it's a new we're actually talking about modern testing
It is modern and it is about testing right? I'm changing the website in 15 minutes
So so for that one
The I think the priority is improving the business but unlike when we when we originally did this we put that in there
Because like I remember why I wanted that in there and why I wanted it as number one
Is because so much of the traditional testers were
We're just like I I provided information or I do what I told or I do this
I'm like I provide information to stakeholders so they can make the hard decisions
Right and we're like no cut that crap out be a part
Be an active part of improving the business
Not not some dead weight that someone can cut at any time
We accelerate the team and use models like
I don't know. That's not part of the new modern testing. I don't think it is
And even number so I think one five and six
So the customer is only capable to judge and evaluate the quality of our product
That's a new modern testing principle as well as we use data extensively to deeply understand customer usage and close the gap stream product
Hypothesis and business impact. That's a new modern testing principle
Yeah, you could you could almost argue six could be removed because we're kind of saying
Six is modern testing. Yeah. Yeah, it's gonna take a little bit of work here. I do want to make one little psa. So
Uh, just so you all know brent is click training himself
So if you hear a little clicky clicky sound in the back that is brent teaching himself how to not salivate when hearing good ideas
Yeah, so when I have a good idea
the small
Mostly non-functional but sometimes functional, uh
Resistance to annoy alan just dissipates
It's like okay
No, must put crunchy things down must hit mute if i'm gonna cough must
All of alan's rules that you've heard him
over the years
I can you know, I cut your coughs and and clearing throats things out of the podcast all the time
But it's when you're clicking when you talk
I can't I do not have the time to go in and edit out the clicks while leaving your voice in place
It is not worth it. So they're gonna be there. But wait a minute. You're saying you could do that though
I could I could I could do that. Okay fair enough. All right. I'm not gonna
too much effort
Yeah, so several things would need to change for sure
But I like this direction
And I like it too because
Now if we do this I have to go back and restudy all those things that I learned once and you all know like it
Oh, you know what? I should go back and look at the presentation. I gave at like agile dev in las vegas in
2017 or so where I gave a talk on experimentation
Did you know that brent?
Yes, I give like a workshop on experimentation. No, I know
Because this is where I I I you vetted it here
I know because this is what I do. I learned enough to give a presentation people to be happy. It was like a fill-in like
Don't have a speaker. Can you come to vegas? I said yeah, i'll come for the day
I said no you have to spend the night. I'm not okay
I'm not entirely certain you should be so proud of yourself being a masterful bullshitter, but you know, whatever
Someone's a little jelly
So no, I want to relearn this stuff. So I will I will put my no with that with that light of mine
Talking about it. Yeah, this is so cool. We have a topic for the next podcast
Two weeks before we're even going to record it
We often do that. The question is often
We do
The question is is will we actually remember? No, I think we will this is big news. This is big news
We're talking about season two of the a b testing podcast. Yeah
It's freaking funny as well. You're like, hey
What if we took the concept of modern testing?
And combined it with the concept of a b testing
Who could have come up with that idea?
I just can't wait to chase the tail line too. It it it is modern damn it and it is about testing now. Shut up
Yeah, it'll at least at least the hate letters will be something new right? You know, I yes
And we love the anyways give us things to talk about and every we we love for you to hate us
I was just thinking no, I was just trying to
I was trying to guess what the if we came out with that with
With a set of principles that were in fact both modern and about
Testing and I don't know it depends on to what degree we wanted to say
Yeah, we're we're taking the term. We're taking over the term what you call testing this. Yeah
Oh, oh and we can be the ones to say oh, oh, oh my god. Oh my god
I know where you're going. Go ahead. We could be the ones to say well, that's not testing
Yeah
Oh
You you went down a similar path
But not the one we have heard some people say that about testers in the industry where they didn't like them because whatever i'm not
But they would say what that's not testing. Well, guess what?
That's not testing either
No, no
Yeah, what if we were to say?
And I would love to be able to say this and back it up
What is known as traditional testing?
I am proposing that from here on out
We call it checking
All of it every bit of it your information providing that's all checking all of it all of it
You're playing with the app to see if it works and and plugging in random inputs
Still checking it's all checking
Let's like let's like if we're gonna take if we're gonna take back the term or if we're gonna take the term testing
Let's test take take checking as well. Why not? Okay
We own testing
All right, I gotta go to my next medium yeah me too. Hey everybody
It's alan and goodbye and that's brent and he says goodbye and we'll talk to you next time on series two episode
166 of the a slash b testing podcast. Bye. Bye